---
title: 'Note: How to include mathematics in Github pages by MathJax'
date: 2017-08-08
permalink: /posts/2017/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - mathematical formula in browsers
  - MathJax
  - Latex
---
Here some tips about using MathJax to include mathematics in Github blog is provided. MathJax is an open-source JavaScript display engine for LaTeX, MathML, and AsciiMath notation that works in all modern browsers. The documentation of MathJax can be found [here](http://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/index.html).
<style>
pre{font-family: courier; font-size: 80%; border:solid 1px ##cccccc; background:#f5f5f5f5;}
code{font-family: courier; border:solid 1px ##cccccc; background:#f5f5f5f5;}
</style>



## MathJax Configuration

There are two methods to access MathJax: 

* Use the copy of MathJax available from the content distributed network (CDN) service (__the easiest way__);  
* Download and install a copy of MathJax on your own server, then use it locally (with no need for network access). 

Taking an example of academicpages, to display mathematics in our page through CDN, the link of a free CDN provider should be put into the file "\_include/head.html", such as the __cdnjs__ shown below:
<pre>&lt;script type="text/javascript" async
  src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.2/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML"&gt;
&lt;/script&gt;</pre>
where the parameter behind <code>=</code> is used to specify a pre-compiled configuration file. Here <code>TeX-MML-AM_CHTML</code> means that the main components of MathJax have been loaded, such as TeX, MathML, and AsciiMath preprocessors and input processors, and the CommonHTML output processor definitions etc. Other parameters and their meanings can be found [here](http://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/config-files.html#common-configurations).

For Tex and Latex in MathJax, the process of displaying mathematics in web pages can be divided into three stages:  

1. Find and mark the TeX notation within web pages (indicated by math delimiters) through the _tex2jax preprocessor_;  
2. Convert the TeX notation into MathJax’s internal format using _TeX input processor_;  
3. Use the _MathJax’s output processor_ to displays it in web pages.

## Delimiters Setting
In terms of inline mathematics and displayed equations, whose delimiters can be defined by including a configuration script like below:
<pre>&lt;script type="text/x-mathjax-config"&gt;
	MathJax.Hub.Config({
	  tex2jax: {
	    inlineMath: [ ['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)'] ], 
	    displayMath: [ ['$$','$$'], ['\\[','\\]'] ]
	  }
	});
&lt;/script&gt;</pre>
Under the definition shown above, we can display inline formula $y = ax + b$ by <code>$y = ax + b$</code> or <code>\\(y = ax + b\\)</code>, and displayed equation:
\\[y = ax + b\\]
by <code>$$y = ax + b$$</code> or <code>\\[y = ax + b\\]</code>. 

`NOTE`: By default, the math delimiters <code>\\(...\\)</code>, <code>\\[...\\]</code> and <code>$$...$$</code> have been defined by the _tex2jax preprocessor_. The delimiter <code>$...$</code> is ignored, this is because dollar signs appear too often in non-mathematical settings, which could cause some text to be treated as mathematics unexpectedly. Thus if you are not planning to use single-dollor signs for determining inline mathematics, __the script above is not required__.

More configurations about _tex2jax Preprocessor_ can be found [here](http://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/options/preprocessors/tex2jax.html#configure-tex2jax).






















